# 3.2: Mobile Device Connectivity:

## 3.2.1 Mobile Services and Wi-Fi:

Mobile devices give us the freedom to work, learn, play, and communicate wherever we want. People using mobile devices do not need to be tied to a physical location to send and receive voice, video, and data communications. In addition, wireless facilities, such as internet cafes, are available in many countries. College campuses use wireless networks to allow students to sign up for classes, watch lectures, and submit assignments in areas where physical connections to the network are unavailable. With mobile devices becoming more powerful, many tasks that needed to be performed on large computers connected to physical networks can now be completed using mobile devices on wireless networks.

Almost all mobile devices are capable of connecting to Wi-Fi networks. It is advisable to connect to Wi-Fi networks when possible because data used over Wi-Fi does not count against the cellular data plan. Also, because Wi-Fi radios use less power than cellular radios, connecting to Wi-Fi networks conserves battery power. Like other Wi-Fi-enabled devices, it is important to use security when connecting to Wi-Fi networks. These precautions should be taken to protect Wi-Fi communications on mobile devices:

- Never send login or password information using unencrypted text (plaintext).
- Use a VPN connection when possible if you are sending sensitive data.
- Enable security on home networks.
- Use WPA2 or higher encryption for security.

## 3.2.3 Configure Cellular Data Settings

<br>

[back to intro](3.0_intro.md)