# 4.1 Home Network Basics

## 4.1.2: Components of a Home Network:

In addition to an integrated router, there are many different types of devices that might be connecting to a home network. Here are a few examples:

Desktop computers
Gaming systems
Smart TV systems
Printers
Scanners
Security cameras
Telephones
Climate control devices
As the new technologies come on the market, more and more household functions will rely on the network to provide connectivity and control.

### 4.1.3 Typical Home Network Routers:

- Small business and home routers typically have two primary types of ports:
    - **Ethernet ports:**
    These ports connect to the internal switch portion of the router. These ports are usually labeled “Ethernet” or “LAN”, as shown in the figure. All devices connected to the switch ports are on the same local network.
    In addition to the wired ports, many home routers include a radio antenna and a built-in wireless access point. By default, the wireless devices are on the same local network as the devices that are physically plugged into the LAN switch ports. The internet port is the only port that is on a different network in the default configuration.
    - **Internet Ports:** This port is used to connect the device to another network. The internet port connects the router to a different network than the Ethernet ports. This port is often used to connect to the cable or DSL modem in order to access the internet.

    ## Q & A:

    - **Question 1:**
    True of False: A home router typically only provides wired access to the network. You have to buy a separate device for wireless access.

    > False

    - **Question 2:**
    Which of the following is used to connect a wired device to the internal switch of the home router?

    > Ethernet port

    <br>

[back to intro](4.0_intro.md)