# 4.2 Network Technologies in the Home

## 4.2.1: LAN Wireless Frequencies:

The wireless technologies most frequently used in home networks are in the unlicensed 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz frequency ranges.

Bluetooth is a technology that makes use of the 2.4 GHz band. It is limited to low-speed, short-range communications, but has the advantage of communicating with many devices at the same time.
Other technologies that use the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands are the modern wireless LAN


### 4.2.2 : Wired Network Technologies

- The communly implemented wired protocol is **Ethernet**

- Typed of wired Technologies:
    - **Category 5e Cable**:
    Category 5e is the most common wiring used in a LAN. The cable is made up of 4 pairs of wires that are twisted to reduce electrical interference.
    - **Coaxal Cable:**
    Coaxial cable has an inner wire surrounded by a tubular insulating layer, that is then surrounded by a tubular conducting shield. Most coax cables also have an external insulating sheath or jacket.
    - **Fiber optic Cable:**
    Fiber-optic cables can be either glass or plastic with a diameter about the same as a human hair and it can carry digital information at very high speeds over long distances. Fiber-optic cables have a very high bandwidth, which enables them to carry very large amounts of data.
## Q & A:

- **Question 1:**

Certain areas of the electromagnetic spectrum can be used without a permit.

> True

- **Question 2:**

Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and cordless phones all use the same frequency ranges.

> False, Wifi uses 2.5GHz ( so as bluetooth ) or 5GHz but cordless operate at 900 MHz

- **Question 3:**
Which wired network technology has an inner wire surrounded by a tubular insulating layer, that is then surrounded by a tubular conducting shield.

> Coaxial
<br>



[back to intro](4.0_intro.md)