# 4.3 Network Technologies in the Home

## 4.3.1 Wi-Fi Networks
- A number of standards have been developed to ensure that wireless devices can communicate. They specify the RF spectrum used, data rates, how the information is transmitted, and more.

### 4.3.2 Wireless Settings
- Wireless routers using the 802.11 standards have multiple settings that have to be configured. These settings include the following:

### Network Mode:
- Determines the type of technology that must be supported. For example,802.11b,802.11g,802.11n or Mixed Mode.

### Network Name (SSID):
- Used to identify the WLAN. All devices that wish to participate in the WLAN must have the same SSID.

### Standard Channel:
- Specifies the channel over which communication will occur. By default, this is set to Auto to allow the access point (AP) to determine the optimum channel to use.

### SSID Broadcast:
- Determines if the SSID will be broadcast to all devices within range. By default, set to Enabled.

Note: SSID stands for Service Set Identifier.


## Q & A:

- **Question 1:**

Which organization is responsible for testing wireless LAN devices?
> Wi-Fi Alliance

- **Question 2:**

What is used to identify a specific wireless network?
> Service Set Identifier SSID

- **Question 3:**
True or False?

If you have devices on your wireless network that are using a variety of different 802.11 standards, then you should set your network to the highest standard to get the best throughput.
> False, The network should be configured for mixed mode
<br>



[back to intro](4.0_intro.md)