# 4.4 Set Up A home Router

## 4.4.1 First Time Setup:
- The setup process for home wireless routers involves using automatic setup utilities through a wired PC/laptop connection or configuring wireless client software if wired connection is unavailable. A connection is established using an Ethernet patch cable to the LAN port (not "Internet"). Verify the internet connection type (cable modem or DSL) and manually set up the computer's IP address if needed.

## 4.4.2 Design Considerations

### What should my network be called?
### What types of devices will be attached to my network?
### How do I add new devices?


## Q & A:

- **Question 1:**
Which type of wireless communication is based on 802.11 standards?

> Wi-Fi


- **Question 2**
What wireless router configuration would stop outsiders from using your home network?

> encryption

- **Question 3**
What type of device is commonly connected to the Ethernet switch ports on a home wireless router?

> LAN device

- **Question 4**
Which type of network technology is used for low-speed communication between peripheral devices?

> Bluetooth

- - **Question 5**
What can be used to allow visitor mobile devices to connect to a wireless network and restrict access of those devices to only the internet?

> guest SSID

- **Question 6**
What purpose would a home user have for implementing Wi-Fi?

> to create a wireless network usable by other devices

- **Question 7**

What is another term for the internet port of a wireless router?

> WAN port

- **Question 8**
Which type of network cable consists of 4 pairs of twisted wires?

> category 5e

- **Question 9**

What is the default SSID Broadcast setting on a wireless router?

> Enabled

- **Question 10**

Which is a characteristic of the network SSID?

> It is case sensitive.

<br>



[back to intro](4.0_intro.md)