# 5.1: Communication protocols:

## 5.1.1: Communication protocols:

- For any Communication, we must have a `methode`, a `language` and a way to `confirm` receipt
- These rules, or protocols, must be followed in order for the message to be successfully delivered and understood.

- Networking protocols use the following protocols' aspects of communication:

    - Message Format
    - Message Size
    - Timing
    - Encoding
    - Encapsulation
    - Message Pattern

## Q & A:

### Question 1:
Bianka, a Polish traveler in Hanoi, Vietnam, stops and asks Nguyệt for directions to the Ngoc Son Temple. They verbally communicate and determine that they both speak English. After receiving directions in English to the temple, Bianka repeats them to Nguyệt. Nguyệt says, "Yes, that is correct." Select the order of the communications protocols used in this scenario?

> method, language, confirmation

## Question 2:

Rory is studying the fields inside an Ethernet frame for an upcoming test and notices that the destination Media Access Control (MAC) address is listed first before the source MAC address. Which of the following protocol characteristics is Rory investigating?

> Encapsulation

## Question 3:
As Rory continues to study Ethernet, he discovers that a frame can typically be 64 to 1518 bytes of information that is converted into a series of bits before being sent out on the network. Which two protocol characteristics did Rory learn about for Ethernet?

> Encoding & Size

<br>



[back to intro](5.0_intro.md)