# 5.2: Communication protocols:

## 5.2.1: Devices in a bubble:

- Devices can not see all the compoinents of a network.
- Every Device is in its own bubble
- HOw Does it now ot's IP? Destination? ...
- The answer is `protocols`
    - When packets are sent through the network,, they ollow certain protocols to ensure they arrive to their destination. Some Types of protocols are:
        - **Ethernet / Wlan**: physically connect device to network
        - **DHCP/ICMIPV6**: Tells the device:
            - what network it is connected to the IP address.
            -  The address of the deault gateway (where to send packets that are destined or a diferent network). 
            - The IP Address of the DNS server to translate domain name into IP address
        - **TCP/IP**: 
            - IP: Used to transer web server data.
            - TCP: is used to guarentee reliabily, so that when a packet is not received it will send it back  
## 5.2.2: Th3e Internet Standards:

- A standard is a set of rules that determine how something must be done
- Using standards, it is possible for different types of devices to send information to each other over the internet

## Q & A:

### Question 1:
The rules that govern network communications including the message format, message size, timing, and encapsulation, are known as network:
> Protocols

## Question 2:

The IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) records and publishes internet standards in documents known as:
> Request for Comments (RFC)

## Question 3:
As Rory continues to study Ethernet, he discovers that a frame can typically be 64 to 1518 bytes of information that is converted into a series of bits before being sent out on the network. Which two protocol characteristics did Rory learn about for Ethernet?

> Encoding & Size

<br>



[back to intro](5.0_intro.md)
